---
title: ' Ademola Aina, An IITA Researcher named Borlaug LEAP awardee'

date: 2025-04-07
permalink: /posts/2025/07/blog-post-4/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

Sometimes, all it takes is to apply twice or keep applying for that dream scholarship, job, country, or whatever it is you dearly desire. I remember in 2016, as a graduate researcher, I always wanted to do more intensive research, but funding was a major problem for almost every student of African nationality. Despite having tried numerous scholarship applications without any success, I decided to try the Norman Borlaug Leadership Enhancement in Agriculture Program a second time, I was shortlisted this time, passed the interview and became a [fellow](https://www.iita.org/news-item/iita-graduate-researcher-named-borlaug-leap-awardee-2/). I later realised that a component of my initial application was incomplete and that was why I didn’t get it the first time. 
That was how I got into a fellowship at the University of California-Davis and the Genome Center to do cutting edge science firsthand as fellow. You can find the details about the program [here](https://caes.ucdavis.edu/outreach/geo/fellowships/borlaug-leap). The Borlaug LEAP offers fellowships to enhance the quality of thesis research of graduate students from developing countries who show strong promise as leaders in the field of agriculture and related disciplines. The program supports engaging a mentor at a US university and a CGIAR center.

Sometimes, all it takes is applying one more time, whether for that dream scholarship, job, opportunity, or country you dearly desire. In 2016, while working as a graduate researcher, I longed to engage in more intensive scientific work, but like many students from African nations, funding was a major barrier. I had applied for numerous scholarships without success, yet I kept trying. When the Norman Borlaug Leadership Enhancement in Agriculture Program (Borlaug LEAP) opened again, I decided to apply a second time. This time, I was shortlisted, passed the interview, and became a [fellow](https://www.iita.org/news-item/iita-graduate-researcher-named-borlaug-leap-awardee-2/). Only later did I learn that my initial application had been incomplete, which explained why I wasn’t selected the first time. That second attempt changed everything. Through the fellowship, I joined the Plant Sciences Department, University of California, Davis, and the Genome Center, where I experienced cutting-edge science firsthand. It was a transformative period in my academic journey. For context, the Borlaug LEAP fellowship [here](https://caes.ucdavis.edu/outreach/geo/fellowships/borlaug-leap), supports graduate students from developing countries both abroad and in the U.S. who demonstrate strong leadership potential in agriculture and related fields. The program enhances thesis research by pairing fellows with mentors at a U.S. university and a CGIAR center. Unfortunatley, the program closed after an impactful 10 years in 2018.
