---
title: 'In the Begining : My Journey to Ph.D'
date: 2025-03-17
permalink: /posts/2025/03/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

This week, I find myself reflecting deeply on hope and gratitude to God, and to everyone who has helped me along the way. Like many aspiring scholars, I applied to graduate school without funding, spending a full year drafting proposal after proposal as I prepared for the unknown journey ahead.

Eventually, after sending countless volunteer emails to scientists, I secured a research technician position at the Bioscience Center of the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), a non-profit research institute under the United Nations’ Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). Two months into intensive molecular research, I had a conversation with my then PI, Dr. B. Ranjana, about potential research opportunities in different crops. She mentioned yam, but I mistakenly thought she said yam bean, when I got home and looked it up, I immediately fell in love with the crop.

I wrote a new proposal and shared it with my late supervisor, Dr. C. O. Ilori. He smiled and said, “This is exactly what Dr. Michael Abberton (Director, West Africa Hub, IITA and Head of the Genetic Resources Centre) and I were planning to work on "What a miraculous coincidence".

Soon after, we met with Dr. Abberton, and that meeting became the turning point of my academic journey. I received funding from the Global Crop Trust, through IITA, which made my doctoral studies possible.
Today marks exactly ten years since I signed my appointment letter for Graduate Research Fellow, Genetic Resources Centre and I remember the joy of that day as vividly as ever.


